tracy jackson: Can you hear me.
tracy jackson: Hi, can you hear me.
Alcatel 7: Yes. Yes. Hello. Can you hear me.
tracy jackson: Yes, I can. And do you go about Timothy
Alcatel 7: Yes, yes. Timothy, or Tim
tracy jackson: Okay. Hi, I'm Tracy Jackson. Nice to meet you.
Alcatel 7: Nice to be here. Sorry about that. I think would be one in front of the number
tracy jackson: I see. Okay.
tracy jackson: And how is your internet connection, it looks like it is a little weak here. Can you hear
Everything.
Alcatel 7: I can let me see if I can get over here and see if it gets a little better.
tracy jackson: Okay, if, as we continue to
Alcatel 7: Get better
tracy jackson: Yes. If, as we continue the connection gets poor, we can turn off our videos and that up to help with the connection. Okay.
Alcatel 7: Perfect.
tracy jackson: Okay. Well, Tim. Tell me something about yourself that doesn't have anything to do with pain or health just who you are.
Alcatel 7: Um, let's see. I'm, I'm just a basic family man.
Alcatel 7: Married with I used to have three children. Oh, I have to my daughter passed away.
Alcatel 7: I got sick about 10 years ago.
Alcatel 7: I was still working trying to hide everything I have epilepsy.
Alcatel 7: Heart disease.
Alcatel 7: I've had reconstructive surgery on my right shoulder twice.
Alcatel 7: Now needed on my left shoulder.
Alcatel 7: I spend most of my time. I mean, art, and I love oil painting pastels.
Alcatel 7: Anything has to do with art anything creative
Alcatel 7: And now nowadays.
Alcatel 7: I've been out of work with my snapper, a couple of years.
Alcatel 7: With trying to get through disability.
Alcatel 7: So most of my time I spend with my son, which is 19 now.
Okay.
Alcatel 7: They'll between my wife and my son getting into little bits here and there that I can do. I'm kind of limited so I let him do most of the work.
tracy jackson: So I hear that you you value your family and your ability to create and to to paint and and about 10 years ago is when you really noticed a change that has sort of lead a change in your health that has led you here.
Alcatel 7: Yeah, exactly. I was able to hide my health.
Alcatel 7: Especially my seizures for
Alcatel 7: Quite a few years.
Alcatel 7: Up until a few
tracy jackson: Years.
Alcatel 7: And started to come on, just without notice at all. Okay. And I averaged a seizure every other day.
Alcatel 7: That I couldn't hide it anymore.
tracy jackson: So so 10 tell me in your own words. I know you've received a lot of diagnoses from the healthcare system and everything through the years. But what do you think
tracy jackson: Having lived with yourself for 24 7365 your whole life. Like, what do you think are the different things that are contributing to your pain.
Alcatel 7: Um,
Alcatel 7: Think with my shoulder when it, when when it. Well, I lost most of my ability.
Alcatel 7: I lost about 40% to 50%
Alcatel 7: And I guess going back and forth to the doctors
Alcatel 7: And I have deteriorating nerves that the the general nerve variation in my legs.
Alcatel 7: So my SOMEONE'S hitting my legs with a hammer at all times.
Alcatel 7: I think the biggest thing with me is just is is just being able to get around.
Alcatel 7: Not being there, like I should be for my wife and my son. He
Alcatel 7: And going back and forth with different doctors and having them try you know medicine medicine and for medicine, the doctors that I've been seeing in the past, up until now.
Alcatel 7: All they want to do is just throw me on medication.
tracy jackson: You know,
Alcatel 7: Vice that it will current that I've been on an MS cotton in Norco
Alcatel 7: It really in a way that I function.
Alcatel 7: I don't like to be we're not in control and I my head's not clear.
Alcatel 7: And that though that was a big part of the medications and they were they based off of working
Alcatel 7: So I will basically just take them as as the maintenance slowly wouldn't get their bed. I was laying in bed, most of the time.
tracy jackson: Mm hmm. So are you still there. Oh, and
Alcatel 7: Then it's, I mean the depression is what really got got into it, anxiety and depression.
Mm hmm.
Alcatel 7: So you got to a point right I
Alcatel 7: Think so.
tracy jackson: So you've been seeing pain doctors off and on for about 10 years
Alcatel 7: Of what
tracy jackson: You've been seeing pain. Doctors often on for about 10 years
Alcatel 7: Yeah yeah
tracy jackson: I'm going to try to stop my video and see if that helps. Maybe you can stop your video and see if we get a better signal.
Alcatel 7: Oh, let's see here.
Alcatel 7: Video
Alcatel 7: There, you guys are better.
tracy jackson: It seems to be better. Can you hear me.
Alcatel 7: I can, I can
tracy jackson: Okay, and so it sounds like for about 10 years she's been seeing various pain doctors mainly to get medications to treat this pain. It's not really certain exactly where it's coming from. But it's nerve pain in your legs and potentially associated with the seizures and pain in your shoulders.
Correct.
tracy jackson: And through this and you've really developed severe feelings of desperation not not desperation so much as just depression feeling unable to
tracy jackson: Do the things that you would like to do and be there for your family in the way that you can because of this pain and because of the difficulty coming on and off the United side effects of the medicines for instance.
Alcatel 7: Yeah, exactly. And also with my seizures, my, my body.
Alcatel 7: Because I I have seizures about once a month on a minimum
Alcatel 7: And my my body itself just tenses up so much that good.
Alcatel 7: And I fall in everything else. And so the pain with that as well. It just
Alcatel 7: It just adds on to it right and unwanted me go through this and he remembers how I used to be.
Alcatel 7: And I can see the you know the disappointment, you know, not that he doesn't understand but you know he's
Alcatel 7: You know he he really feels bad for me. But there's not much I can do, and he can't
Know,
tracy jackson: Right.
tracy jackson: And it's frustrating for everyone and tell me when you first used opioids for any reason, and sort of the history of your opioid use the medicines, you've taken how much you've taken what your current uses that sort of thing.
Alcatel 7: Um, it's been about 10 years
Alcatel 7: I first started having seizures and I would sort of falling down and stuff, they would give me Norco
Alcatel 7: I would go through Norco like pretty much aspirin.
Alcatel 7: It was just something that one or two didn't work. It stopped working. So then it would take more while that would stop working out with a war.
Alcatel 7: They tried me on methadone, but I was allergic to it. I broke out in hives and then my throat started closing up
Alcatel 7: So I couldn't take that and then I got on MS continent, about four years ago.
Alcatel 7: In the nation. They started that at 50 milligrams, two times a day.
Alcatel 7: With an within a short period of time, two weeks they brought it up to three times a day.
Alcatel 7: With four to six darcos for the breakthrough every single day.
Alcatel 7: And so that's that's currently how that's all that's been going when I was growing up and stuff. I, I never really took medications.
Alcatel 7: I always figured they were for when you got say
Alcatel 7: I've had surgeries in between.
Alcatel 7: But really nothing that required me to take him for a long period of time.
tracy jackson: Okay, and then your current refugees, I saw, I think I saw. Have you been getting some just Tramadol the past couple of months or
Alcatel 7: Yeah, yeah. My current primary she does not give out any types of narcotics.
Alcatel 7: referred me to pay management, she does not like me. She doesn't refer
Alcatel 7: To them, like she can give me because I don't offer the MS continent and I got off of the the Norco
Alcatel 7: Which I'm still feeling backer effects, but
Alcatel 7: She was it will until I was able to get to pain management to give me the Tramadol
Alcatel 7: Which then again, she would give me like two a day for 30 days supply and I would go through those in
Alcatel 7: We can have
tracy jackson: Okay. And so what have you been doing now for. Are you currently taking any opioids are you just cold turkey white knuckling it at the moment, cold.
Alcatel 7: Turkey right now. Okay.
tracy jackson: When was your last opioid does
Alcatel 7: I finished my last dose of the Tramadol
Alcatel 7: week and a half ago.
tracy jackson: We can half ago. Okay. Are you still experiencing any withdrawal symptoms.
Alcatel 7: Yes. Yeah, okay.
tracy jackson: And tell me what those withdrawal symptoms are
Alcatel 7: The cold chills.
Alcatel 7: I'm
Alcatel 7: See my body aches.
Alcatel 7: I can't sit still, the nerve damage my legs. Anytime that I do go through withdrawals.
Alcatel 7: I can't sit
Alcatel 7: Okay, I have to keep
Alcatel 7: I can't. It's like I'm really restless.
Alcatel 7: With those two seconds. I can't sit still, I have to continue to move my legs. Okay. It's like sitting with my legs back and forth.
Alcatel 7: Right and the lead with the my legs. Is it just adds to it.
Alcatel 7: Will get sick hard to hold her down, and I don't sleep. Okay.
tracy jackson: And then tell me in your words. Do you feel like you've had any consequences from your opioid use, whether that's to your health, your relationships job legal any kind of stuff like that.
Alcatel 7: Oh yes yeah definitely with my family.
Mm hmm.
Alcatel 7: I mean they notice the difference that I'm not okay. Unless I'm on them.
Alcatel 7: But when I am on them.
Alcatel 7: Especially the MS cotton.
Alcatel 7: I'm just really not there.
Right.
tracy jackson: And have you have you tried Suboxone before keep her nursing
Alcatel 7: I have, I have a dog old years ago.
Alcatel 7: I went through a surgery on my leg to find out what was going on. They cut three inches out of my leg to find out the nerves and the tissue interview and find out about the
Alcatel 7: The nerve damage and say gave me the Norco but back then it was Viking in that 800 800 milligrams and for a month. And one of when I went back, they gave me one or two of the
Alcatel 7: The orange pills.
Alcatel 7: Of Suboxone
Alcatel 7: And they got me through the withdrawals.
tracy jackson: Okay. And then because you still continue to have pain. You went off the Suboxone and then started back on the regular a few weeks after that.
Alcatel 7: Yeah, at that time, I didn't know that you can use Suboxone for pain.
I'm
Alcatel 7: Just coming with open
Minds.
tracy jackson: And and then you mentioned that you paint a lot or in you're applying for disability. Have you ever worked or what was your work before
Alcatel 7: Oh, I was an electrical engineer.
Alcatel 7: Okay I designed electrical while I used to design electrical systems for your high rise buildings.
Alcatel 7: Mean San Francisco and all brand new buildings or building remodels okay
Alcatel 7: And I did that for my whole whole career.
Alcatel 7: I do my art just for you know the past time. I mean, just for fun.
tracy jackson: And the pain or the appeal us prevented you from continuing the work as the electrical engineer.
Alcatel 7: With did, yeah.
I mean that's open
Alcatel 7: I couldn't work overhead.
Alcatel 7: If I worked for about 510 minutes I would have to sit down.
tracy jackson: So that's been 10 years as well that you have not been able to work.
Alcatel 7: Um, I actually, I was able to hide it and say, I'm taking a break. You know or have a co worker, you know, some stuff like I was training them.
Alcatel 7: I had been out of work for three and a half years fighting with this ability
Alcatel 7: So all that other time I've been working
tracy jackson: And and what are you doing for income at the moment.
Alcatel 7: Right now it's my wife, she's on SSI.
Alcatel 7: I've been kind of living with her with that and just struggling with what we can get from, you know, the county and
Alcatel 7: It's not a good situation.
Alcatel 7: Okay, self esteem. It just, it's bad.
tracy jackson: ALL RIGHT. DO YOU FEEL, DO YOU HAVE insecurity around food or your house and are you able to eat and have shelter and all that kind of stuff.
Alcatel 7: Oh, yeah.
Alcatel 7: Yeah, yeah. I live with my wife, my son, so
tracy jackson: Okay, um, how about any other substances that you have used in the past, anytime in your anytime in your life. I'll just kind of go through them.
tracy jackson: Alcohol.
Alcatel 7: Oh yeah. Yes, I'm an alcoholic.
Alcatel 7: Uh huh. But I haven't drank in 14 and a half years.
tracy jackson: Okay, and what was the what. To what do you attribute your sobriety.
Alcatel 7: My daughter when my daughter got
Alcatel 7: My three she passed away.
Alcatel 7: That was it, cut it off. No more.
tracy jackson: And just did that you've never been to inpatient or outpatient rehab for any kind of substances.
Alcatel 7: No, no, I went in.
Alcatel 7: With detox.
Alcatel 7: Going into seizures and whatnot.
Alcatel 7: Never, never touch it again, never went into rehab.
tracy jackson: Okay. Do you go to na na or any of that.
Alcatel 7: Dumb I go to a
Alcatel 7: I start to feel the urge my winter a replay justly for five and a half years.
Alcatel 7: And I still work with my sponsor and
Alcatel 7: He kind of coaches me through things, but I really haven't had the urge, it's been so long. Okay.
tracy jackson: And how about an alcohol, tobacco.
Alcatel 7: I do I smoke a half a pack a day.
Alcatel 7: I used to smoke a pack a day and I'm down to half back
tracy jackson: Okay, and for how long have you been talking
Alcatel 7: About 30 years
tracy jackson: Okay, and any desire or motivation to work on that.
Alcatel 7: Oh yes definitely. Okay.
I've been putting
tracy jackson: Okay.
tracy jackson: Yeah, and then how about, um, any stimulants, whether that's Meth, Cocaine.
tracy jackson: Adderall, any of that.
Alcatel 7: No, no, I was on I'm
Alcatel 7: Just trying to think. Now when I went blank. Oh, I was on for my seizures. I was on Ben's of
Alcatel 7: I was Xanax value and Klonopin
Alcatel 7: And I quit. Those and stop those three and a half years ago.
tracy jackson: And okay and and how about
tracy jackson: Have you ever used heroin.
Alcatel 7: No, no, no.
tracy jackson: I can ever
tracy jackson: Crush snorted taking the pills any other way than just ingesting them by mouth.
Alcatel 7: No. No. Okay. No, I, if I took more, I would just take more but I I never did it any other way.
tracy jackson: Right, and then we'll have you, have you ever accidentally overdosed on medications.
Alcatel 7: No, not that I can remember.
tracy jackson: Okay so never had to receive them, nor can or any of that kind of stuff.
Alcatel 7: No, no, not at all.
tracy jackson: All right and and other than when
Alcatel 7: I was on muscle relaxer I just remembered back within
Alcatel 7: I'm going back about about same time about 10 years ago when I had my surgery.
Mm hmm.
Alcatel 7: And that I did end up in the hospital for by why we take them and forget that I took them.
Alcatel 7: And I did end up in the hospital for that.
Okay.
tracy jackson: So switching gears just a little bit, other than your seizure disorder and the neuropathy in your feet and your shoulder pain and any other medical issues.
Alcatel 7: Um, I do have a mitral valve prolapse.
Alcatel 7: Which they're
Alcatel 7: Not to see if it's morphing disease.
Okay.
Alcatel 7: I also have Addison's disease.
Alcatel 7: And again, that's it.
tracy jackson: And then other I heard an allergy to Methadone while you were talking clear any other allergies to medications.
Alcatel 7: Penicillin
tracy jackson: Penicillin and what happens when you take penicillin.
Alcatel 7: My break out in hives.
tracy jackson: This year, well, we're
tracy jackson: Talking
tracy jackson: At first, I don't want to
tracy jackson: Want to make sure to end, then, can you give me a list of the medications that you're taking now.
Alcatel 7: Oh, yes, yes. Let me go back inside here.
Alcatel 7: Sorry about that.
Alcatel 7: Can you hear me.
Alcatel 7: I can open my mind Capra
Alcatel 7: I take that three times a day two in the morning, two in the afternoon to at night.
tracy jackson: And it is
Alcatel 7: 500 milligrams
tracy jackson: In case you take 1003 times a day.
Alcatel 7: Again, correct.
Okay.
Alcatel 7: And I'm also on am a tripling
Alcatel 7: 25 milligrams
Alcatel 7: And to your time today.
Alcatel 7: And for my depression, I take the law.
Alcatel 7: Milligrams three times a day.
Alcatel 7: And I
Alcatel 7: Know that when I stopped.
Alcatel 7: I came on the scene crane.
Alcatel 7: And eight milligrams
Alcatel 7: Per nausea.
tracy jackson: And okay, just as needed.
Alcatel 7: Yeah yeah
Alcatel 7: And I take methyl carbonneau
tracy jackson: Hmm.
Alcatel 7: 500 milligram
Alcatel 7: Take for a day.
tracy jackson: Okay.
tracy jackson: And who is writing all those medicines for you.
Alcatel 7: Oh, Dr. George
tracy jackson: Okay, and that your, is your primary care doctor
Alcatel 7: She is. Yeah.
tracy jackson: Okay, great. And then other than your you had shoulder surgery. Is that right,
Alcatel 7: Correct.
tracy jackson: And on which shoulder is
Alcatel 7: my right shoulder.
Alcatel 7: And I thought I had it done to
tracy jackson: That's it. And you hadn't done twice.
Alcatel 7: Yeah yeah with my head twice, once and then a year later I have gone again.
tracy jackson: Other surgeries that you've had.
Alcatel 7: I my leg surgery.
Alcatel 7: Were three inches out of my tissue muscle to find out about my nerve damage.
Alcatel 7: My
tracy jackson: Surgery.
Alcatel 7: Um, no. That's all right.
tracy jackson: And then
go far.
tracy jackson: And then in terms of
tracy jackson: Your family history and are your parents both living
Alcatel 7: Oh, what was that
tracy jackson: In your in terms of your family history or your parents both living
Alcatel 7: Of your yes
tracy jackson: Uh huh. And any any health issues or addiction issues and either mother or father
Alcatel 7: Um, no, no. On my mother's well no, let me take that back on my mother's side to have her brothers.
Alcatel 7: They do have addiction problems.
Okay.
Alcatel 7: My father side. He has one brother that he died from alcohol.
Alcatel 7: My mother and my father both they do not have problems they abstain from from everything. Okay.
tracy jackson: All right. And I'm just going to go through sort of a
tracy jackson: List of questions here. So you mentioned that you struggled with depression. Have you had any suicide attempts in the past.
Alcatel 7: I'm twice.
tracy jackson: Okay. And when was the most recent one.
Alcatel 7: Maybe
tracy jackson: 2005 29 years
tracy jackson: Old, okay. And since that time you've never been hospitalized for depression.
Alcatel 7: No, no.
tracy jackson: And how do you feel now. Are you feeling suicidal now.
Okay.
tracy jackson: And how about the anxiety. Do you suffer with panic.
Alcatel 7: Yes.
tracy jackson: Okay. And when was your most recent panic attack.
Alcatel 7: I'd say within the last two weeks.
tracy jackson: In the past two weeks I'm. What do you do to manage your anxiety and panic when you feel it.
Alcatel 7: I just kind of let it go through
Alcatel 7: Okay, walk around the block.
Alcatel 7: Do anything to keep my mind, you know, on focus on other things.
tracy jackson: Right, so you've developed some coping skills. It's not ideal. You're still suffering and then you've developed some ways to deal with it without medications. It sounds like
Alcatel 7: Yeah.
Yeah, okay.
tracy jackson: And then
tracy jackson: You don't have to give details if you don't want. Have you experienced anything that you would consider and the death of your daughter is traumatic and any other traumas or anything that results in flashbacks nightmares that kind of thing.
Alcatel 7: Oh yeah, definitely. Um, when I was a kid. When I was a child I was sexually abused.
Alcatel 7: In my teenagers. I was locked up in juvenile hall.
Alcatel 7: For a couple years.
Alcatel 7: Never been in trouble sense. But when I was teenager.
Alcatel 7: The death of my daughter and my the death of my father in law.
tracy jackson: So, so quite a bit of trauma and any kind of specific counseling or trauma related therapy that you've that you've had.
Alcatel 7: No, I did this counseling.
Alcatel 7: About 10 years ago my daughter passed away.
Hmm.
Alcatel 7: They really didn't help me didn't really want to talk on the subject. It was other things beyond that, that would have contributed to it.
He
Alcatel 7: And I just got frustrated and at that time it just, it wasn't working.
tracy jackson: Okay, so you did make an attempt to have some counseling, but it was a really it was not a good experience for you and you did not. Did you did not find it helpful at that time.
tracy jackson: All right, and another kind of laundry list of questions. I'm sorry for this just because it's the first time getting in the system. I just have to go through some things with you. Okay.
tracy jackson: So it's just a list of symptoms and just say yes or no. So, fever, chills, or night sweats.
tracy jackson: And which ones.
Alcatel 7: God, both
tracy jackson: All. And how long has that been going on.
Alcatel 7: About two weeks to
tracy jackson: Okay. Are you up to date on all your cancer screenings and everything as far as, you know,
Alcatel 7: being screened right now for leukemia.
Okay.
tracy jackson: And because of those symptoms you just described.
Alcatel 7: The correct
tracy jackson: And any blurred vision, double
Alcatel 7: My vision gets blurry but that's just from old age.
Alcatel 7: That's where my
tracy jackson: You, me, but
tracy jackson: Um, any ringing in your ears.
tracy jackson: Know hearing problems.
tracy jackson: Whoa, any issues with your mouth, throat voice swallowing any of that kind of stuff.
tracy jackson: No. Okay. And any lumps or bumps in your neck.
tracy jackson: Any neck pain.
tracy jackson: Oh, yes. Okay. Um,
tracy jackson: any difficulty breathing.
tracy jackson: Shortness of breath, wheezing.
Alcatel 7: Yeah, I had for his breath from or wheezing from smoking.
Alcatel 7: Okay, since I think my doctor gave me an inhaler. Beautiful. I forgot to mention that I'm sorry.
tracy jackson: It's like a
tracy jackson: Chest pain or you mentioned that you're being worked up for no more more fans any known aneurisms or enlarged heart rapid heartbeat, you
Alcatel 7: Know, I have an irregular heartbeat and and I do I check protest means, but that's from my heart disease.
tracy jackson: And tell me about your heart disease.
Alcatel 7: And they said, I have mitral valve prolapse.
Alcatel 7: As your was a child. Okay, well with my cardiologist. He says the man is diagnosed it in. It may be more morphing disease.
tracy jackson: Okay, so he's that's being followed by specialist
Alcatel 7: It is, yes.
tracy jackson: And I know with your withdrawal you're having some gastrointestinal symptoms. Any other kind of long standing problems with your gut.
Alcatel 7: And no, no.
tracy jackson: And in the knowledge is also for which you take this. Oh, Fran. What is that from
Alcatel 7: I'm
Alcatel 7: It's I guess for the medications that I've been on especially with the MS cotton.
tracy jackson: Okay. All right. And any burning when you pee difficulty peeing blood in the urine, anything like that.
Alcatel 7: No, no.
tracy jackson: Um, any kind of sexual dysfunction or issue genital issues at all.
Alcatel 7: So,
tracy jackson: Yeah. Okay. Have you had your testosterone level check
Alcatel 7: I have played it was about 1012 years ago.
tracy jackson: Okay, that might just be something to keep in mind when people are on opioids for a long time and also with Addison's disease that you can get really low testosterone levels, which can really affect your
tracy jackson: Libido and oftentimes ability to orgasm and things like that. So testosterone replacement, she can talk about with your doctor.
tracy jackson: But just having that
A
tracy jackson: Reasonable thing. Yeah.
tracy jackson: Very common with long term if you would use.
tracy jackson: That's good.
tracy jackson: Yeah, right. And any skin rashes.
Alcatel 7: A mill. No.
tracy jackson: Other than your shoulders, your neck and your legs any pain anywhere else in your muscles are joints.
Alcatel 7: My hands when I wake up in the morning, my I can't make a fist, and I, I can't open my pill bottles.
Alcatel 7: So basically in the morning. I can't use one hands and I sometimes will follow over. It'll be okay and then follow into the afternoon. Okay, and
Alcatel 7: What I do
Alcatel 7: With this on it. I have a pain that shoes. I mean, all the way up my my arm.
tracy jackson: And he, you said you've been worked up for leukemia, any, any other none blood related issues. Easy bleeding or bruising.
Alcatel 7: No. Okay.
tracy jackson: And anything else you feel like I should know to be able to understand your story.
Alcatel 7: I've been on opiates for a long time.
Alcatel 7: In the beginning, yeah, they helped a little bit as much. So I can function.
Alcatel 7: What they destroyed is
Alcatel 7: Killing me
Alcatel 7: More so than what my whole quiz. Okay.
tracy jackson: And so I never kind of told you anything really about about me but I'm actually, I'm an anesthesiologist by training and for a lot of years at Vanderbilt, I was doing
tracy jackson: interventional pain procedures. I was writing big doses of opioids are doing all the things until after I started to
tracy jackson: Realize that I really now believe that the system hurts people more than it helps people and
tracy jackson: And so I become a yoga instructor and an acupuncturist and a health coach and I have been doing telemedicine. Now for a couple almost a year and a half, because I really like this opportunity, even though I can't see you on the video and
Alcatel 7: Go me through back on.
tracy jackson: Well, maybe we can try and we've had good connection so far. Let's see.
tracy jackson: But at least I can
tracy jackson: Yeah, I can at least that can take some time to get to know people and really figure out a lot of what's going on and
tracy jackson: The issue with the opioids and is when you receive them the opioids and the steroids and all the other things, you know, your body quits making its own and it does take a while for you to
tracy jackson: Get that new normal back you know for your body to start reproducing those medicines and so it's not uncommon what you're experiencing now you know you're 10 days out
tracy jackson: From the Tramadol but still this could be like multiple months, which is why it's often very hard for people just to go cold turkey off of all of their opioids.
tracy jackson: Because the opioids are tied into your sleep your sexual function, your mood, you know everything that's critical and central to being a human is tied into the abuse system. Right. And that is, like you said, not to mention the side effects.
tracy jackson: That people have in terms of can you still hear me, or should we turn our video back off.
Alcatel 7: Well, I can hear you.
tracy jackson: Okay, good. And so the benefit of something like Suboxone is it works a little bit differently than traditional opioids do. Okay.
tracy jackson: It really bonds more along the opioid receptors in the spinal cord and not so much in the sedating respiratory depression part of the brain. So the risk of overdose is much, much less on Suboxone and it's the strongest abuse it is stronger than fentanyl
tracy jackson: In terms of its binding to the receptor. So, meaning that once there's Suboxone in your system. You could take heroin and you could take bike it in
tracy jackson: It's not going to work. Okay, it's not going to work on your pain receptors, because that Suboxone there. By the same token, if you're not completely in withdrawal so
tracy jackson: After 10 days, this should be out of your system enough. But if you if any Tramadol is still in your system and you take Suboxone it will bump all the Tramadol off and you will go into withdrawal. That is very, very uncomfortable and hard to
tracy jackson: Reverse
Alcatel 7: Yo,
Alcatel 7: I know I've been criminal in my system.
tracy jackson: So, so what this is about. Some will have, we have like an induction protocol that will give you so when we hang up from here.
tracy jackson: And I will call in a prescription for just a week of this Suboxone to your pharmacy. Okay, when you go and get the Suboxone you will call back the virtual clinic, which is that 408 number. You were just talking to Jamie in the virtual clinic.
tracy jackson: You'll call back that virtual clinic.
tracy jackson: And they'll describe to you what to do. Okay, how to take the medicine this clinic is open 24 seven. Okay. Anytime you have a question.
tracy jackson: You may not be able to get in touch with me, but you'll be able to get in touch with them. And that question includes if you're starting to feel suicidal.
tracy jackson: If you feel like you're having side effects. Anything call them. Okay. It should typically it should typically I would really like to start you on the very lowest dose, because the very lowest dose of the Suboxone is still much more than what you were taking in terms of Tramadol
tracy jackson: And
tracy jackson: Suboxone does relieve pain. There's no doubt about it. And like most pain if you try to chase it so that you keep increasing the Suboxone to cover every piece so that you have zero out of 10 pain.
tracy jackson: You're probably going to end up having side effects. So the goal is, we want to give you the lowest possible dose. So you're not having craving.
tracy jackson: So that you can function, your pain is controlled well enough. And then we also offer groups that bright heart health that allow that teach coping skills, other way that I teach
tracy jackson: Other ways to manage pain that you can do from your house at no cost. And that's everything from
tracy jackson: You know, mindfulness to chair yoga to nutrition stuff to whatever but we not everything works for everybody, but we want to continue as you get on this Suboxone to have tools in your toolbox right to get better.
tracy jackson: Okay, so yeah, so we'll start out at the beginning. And over time, if you want to try to tie trade off the Suboxone that's fine. But right now, let's just get you stabilized for six months.
tracy jackson: At least you know and then we can talk about it again. But in the meantime, when we start on it will watch you really closely up front, just giving you a week prescription at the time making sure you're the right dose. You'll come in and see me in a group, once a month.
tracy jackson: And then if things get better we can increase your prescription interval and that kind of thing. Bright heart.
tracy jackson: is committed to keeping you safe and helping you on recovery. So, do not be afraid if you quote fall off the wagon right be very honest with us. Nobody's going to kick you out of the program.
tracy jackson: The idea is that if you're having difficulty we might want to see you more frequently. So if you're missing appointments
tracy jackson: We might shorten your prescription interval, but just because we want to make sure that you come back into the fold so we can see what's going on.
tracy jackson: But we're not trying to kick you out or punish you like honesty is really important.
Alcatel 7: Oh, yeah.
tracy jackson: I'm with you there. Yeah. So after this out. Like I said, I'll write a prescription and you'll call the virtual clinic, they'll walk you through everything you need to know.
tracy jackson: Also, they'll, they'll have you feel fill out some baseline surveys and put you in a group to see me every Wednesday. Okay.
tracy jackson: At some point, once you get stabilized on your does will move you to some pain specific groups as well. But just for the first two to four weeks, we'll see you every week.
tracy jackson: And we'll also schedule an appointment for you to have a one time evaluation with for what we call a bio psychosocial assessment. So our therapist can evaluate you a little more deeply than I did. And if there's any kind of
tracy jackson: Therapy that we have at bright heart that might be helpful. You can talk about that with him or her as well. Okay. All this is typically covered by insurance.
tracy jackson: And all of it is done from your, from your home. Even the drug screening that will have you do is mailed to your house so
tracy jackson: So hopefully, it should be something that you're able to stick with
tracy jackson: And I feel very optimistic, given your past history. There are a lot of prognostic indicators that you're going to do very well and and I look forward to working with you.
tracy jackson: Yeah.
So,
tracy jackson: Okay, do you have any questions. Yeah. Do you have any questions for me, Tim.
Alcatel 7: Oh, no, no. I think we've covered pretty much everything
tracy jackson: Okay, great. Well, I will. And we'll just call that a virtual clinic and I'll call in your prescription right now what pharmacy. Do you use
Alcatel 7: Yes, on the street.
Okay.
tracy jackson: Alright, great.
tracy jackson: Well, I'm I'll let you go. Now, and I'll see you again next week in the virtual clinic will be available. If you have any questions.